Okay, I'll read, now we, so we did this nadiya kom, kohler.
And the, it was just, it was the box breath,
she'd have us do a four, four, four, four box breath thing.
And then she, the prompt, she suggested,
was outside the door and in the beginning.
Use the word nadiya, and use it as often as you can.
Outside the door I stand.
The moment of recognition weighs heavily
and my feet seem to have sunk down below ground level.
Do I want to know what lies beyond the door?
Here in the time before placing my hand
on the big round brass colored handle,
I am present with all I know and don't know.
What might be next has the potential to blow my world apart.
In the beginning, where did the beginning begin?
I was in a very esoteric kind of,
not good, it's good.
Where did the beginning begin?
I don't think I can fathom the beginning,
knowing all is in relation to everything.
When did I begin to realize this or recognize this?
So I'm just floundering here.
So then the thing that, oh,
I think that may have even been when we stopped
and we said, well, so what I really had on my mind
was a note that I have to write to my yoga students
and also a note that I think I wanted to write to Julia
Frank Starke, who hasn't spoken to us.
So you're not getting ready to open the door
to go in somewhere?
So we stopped.
Okay.
Oh, okay, okay.
However, I'm gonna come back around to that prompt
unbeknownst to me at this point.
Okay.
So I go into this Dear Yoga for Health Friends.
Here is the scheduled classes for the rest of April
and on into May.
Some changes and additions.
Saturday the yoga, there will not be a Saturday class
on Saturday, April 22nd.
So on Saturday, April 29th, there will be a special class
that will focus on three specific 15-minute posture flows
that combine strength, balance, and breadth.
At the end of the class, I hope that you will be able
to add these three flows to your home practice.
In May, there will be two Saturday classes,
one May 13th, and there will be,
I'm just feeling very uninspired.
You're going along.
Okay.
As spring 2023 emerges,
as the daffodils, magnolia, trees, and tulips
emerge this spring, I too feel myself emerging
from a winter filled with daily curiosity,
searching for pathways that lead.
I stopped there.
Okay.
And I started again.
As the daffodils, magnolia, trees, and tulips emerge
this spring, I too feel myself emerging from a winter
filled with quiet reading, walks in the woods,
and following the practices of other yoga teachers
who have provided new pathways inward.
As I learn more about mindful meditation,
the immune system, the vagus nerve, and the power of awe,
I feel my teaching slowly turn toward
a more sustainable practice to support us
through our final years.
Our younger years were more guided
by creating and maintaining our outer selves.
We were more concerned about how we appeared to others,
both physically and intellectually.
Since passing into my 70s,
I have been enjoying a freedom
that comes from knowing myself better, liking myself more,
accepting who I am with the imperfections.
I don't change my clothes so often.
I dress for maximum comfort.
I was told decades ago that long hair doesn't fit my face,
and bright reds are not my color.
But my soul loves long hair,
and I'll reach for whatever color jersey feels right for the day.
My goal now is to become more me every day.
Every day wants to show me something extraordinary,
awe-inspiring, and interesting.
Every day offers challenges, difficulties, and choices.
Outside the door, in the beginning.
Find the gate from the back, okay, after all of that.
I remember a beginning.
When I decided not to return to the second year of junior college,
I knew that that was the beginning
of having to create my own pathway through my life.
I would and have chosen the path
that felt right, day after day, for over 55 years.
I thank my parents, my family,
and my family who gave me 19 years
of inspiration to have the courage
to take responsibility for creating my own life.
You've got a lot of good stuff in there.
Thank you.
I'm just going to go back and work on it.
I actually really liked the entry of the beginning.
What's going to happen when...
I thought you were going to make it a fiction
about going and finding out you had cancer or something.
But weren't you starting with kind of what's beyond the door?
I mean, in your mind, it was, I think, a figurative door.
But when I was listening to it,
or was I the only one that thought it was a real door in the beginning?
And the big... before I put my hand on the big brass knob?
You walk on.
It was a metaphor.
I think it was a metaphor.
Well, I heard the problem.
Yeah, it felt...
Because I thought it was a real door, and I was intrigued.
Well, what was going to happen?
Then you broke, and then you went into the logistics.
But then you got to the spraying daffodils and then you took the stuff.
And then you really were inspired by the thing.
And I reminded of at least one beginning in my life.
I mean, I couldn't think at the time when she gave us the problem.
Yeah.
What's the beginning? Where's the beginning?
I just loved hearing the whole process.
And while I loved hearing the process,
the writing I really liked when it stopped being an exercise
at the point for me when you were talking about as spring emerged,
and especially when you had the second take at that when spring emerged.
And I loved your really concrete examples of, you know, of long hair
and wearing the same outfit twice and choosing...
Because you kind of gave us the idea that I just want to be more me
or more comfortable with the me that I am or something like that.
And I thought those examples were really, really good.
And where I ended up was thinking,
OK, so now she's going to find a way to somehow start with...
I don't know if you'll start where you started.
I don't know if the door even comes back to it,
but it sounded to me like you were going to tie the yoga piece
to the recollection of the beginning, you know,
of your journey into yoga.
Like when you talk about when you were 19, that's the idea.
Oh, well, that's an idea.
That's a good idea.
Where I thought you were going and where I...
Tell me. Tell me.
I'm going now is that as I began to go into the goal now is to become more me.
Every day wants to show me something, you know, as I head into my 70s,
I no longer feel like I have to dress my colors or get my hair cut a certain way.
And I'm becoming more comfortable and better at being me.
And I... Because one of the things that I want to talk more about
and write more about is the practice of yoga over the long run
as we move into our aging bodies and how that changes.
And that's what I've been studying a lot over this winter is, you know,
classes with Patricia Walden and the older yoga, my younger yoga people.
I think Trista has been too.
She probably took that four part yoga and aging thing.
And going to Richard's classes.
And there was just who... These guys go to Richard's class sometimes.
And yeah, and you and I, you with my friend Rhonda
and actually starting to sit and meditate.
I picked up on that when you said you're getting more into mindfulness meditation.
And I'm glad to know that.
So this could... That's where this one developed.
And then you can also go back and it could be to the...
Because, yeah, so when you write, oh, I remember a beginning,
that's more you just saying, oh, OK.
And so that doesn't necessarily fit in, doesn't belong to this piece.
It was more part of the project.
Yeah. Yeah. But when I dropped out of junior high, junior college,
after one year, probably I'd have to go back to probably within two years.
I walked into my first yoga class.
So jumping off that...
I think of it as an old record album, you know,
like the needles going around the groove and you're a nice Jewish girl
and you should marry a lawyer, you should do this, you should do that,
and have kids and go to the country club and blah, blah, blah.
And the day I picked the needle off of the thing,
I said, I'm not going back to second year of junior college.
I don't know what I'm going to do.
That's a great album you should use.
So that's a trend.
