The passage from career to retirement was longer than anticipated.
I expected to walk out of the conference room, close the door, and become a different person.
Instead, I found myself on a year-long journey of daily revelations.
I envisioned an emotional rollercoaster that would rattle my identity and upset my self-esteem.
What I felt during the actual transition was a sense of liberation, experimentation,
and transformation.
I feared I would be considered unproductive and that I may become unproductive.
I learned during my Odyssey that productivity could be redefined and that my definition
was the only one that mattered.
We mere mortals are very bad at predicting the future.
My worst fears didn't materialize, but expectation and worry and anxiety are frequent hobgoblins
of change.
They cloud our imagination and limit our choices.
The objects of their desire live only in our minds.
It helps to keep a keen eye on the present to avoid falling under their spell.
It helps to allow for the possibility that there is an outcome that you have not even
dreamed of.
It helps to stay physically healthy and surround yourself with people who love and support
you.
What worried me about retirement was what could have happened.
I could have spiraled into a depression or floundered in the discomfort of the unfamiliar.
Or I could have flourished.
This time, I flourished.
Another time, I may have floundered if I had been less healthy, less loved, less supported.
We don't know how we will feel tomorrow, what our circumstances will be, and who will
accompany us on our ways.
Our lives unfold in a constantly changing world.
I had no idea that the entire world's landscape would be forever transformed by an aggressive
novel coronavirus three months into my own personal transition.
Lockdowns, quarantines, virtual meetings, and Zoom holiday gatherings colored my individual
metamorphosis and the lives of everyone living on the planet.
We were all trying to hold on to our own personal roller coasters, aren't we always, while trying
to literally survive a seismic shift in the world we knew.
The workplace was transformed.
I wasn't the only one getting used to a new metric for productivity.
As more of us found ourselves confined to our living spaces, the old standards of hours
worked and dollars paid no longer sufficed as a gauge for feeling useful.
Because I chose change before COVID appeared, I had already started to take satisfaction
from what had previously felt like chores.
With more time, I enjoyed gardening, cooking, and writing, and viewed them as legitimate
productivity.
I even came to perceive the mere pursuit of enjoyment as productive.
Doing errands and spending time with elderly relatives, reading a book, all proved surprisingly
productive.
Better than productive, gratifying.
My self-esteem remained intact and was finally measured by me alone.
When COVID hit, everyone started posting their bread-making, knitting, and home improvement
prowess.
While I was in a self-imposed period of exploration, many were simply trying to maintain their
sanity.
It's not that COVID didn't affect me.
I was just already in the process of figuring out how to navigate change.
Of course, there's change and there's change.
There's retirement and then there's COVID.
There's chosen change and inflicted change.
It took a year for me to stop seeing my alter egos as separate and retirement as an ending
or a beginning.
Now I see it as an action that required a period of transition.
The professional wife, the wife, the mother, the daughter, sister, friend.
One woman living one little life, one precious little life, going through change after change.
I've experienced 10,000 hours of change over the years, so I should be an expert by now.
I'm not.
Two years after COVID struck, at the beginning of his own retirement, my husband died suddenly.
I was nearing the end of the first draft of my memoir about change, this memoir about
change, as illustrated by my retirement.
There are no words to describe the scope of that loss.
It put all other transitions into perspective.
I have only just begun that passage.
