

All right, the passage from career to retirement was longer than anticipated. I expected to walk out of the conference room, close the door, and become a different person. Instead, I found myself on a year-long journey of daily revelations, I envisioned an emotional roller coaster that would rattle my identity and upset myself esteem what I felt during the actual transition was a sense of liberation experimentation and transformation. 

I feared I would be considered unproductive and that I may become unpredictive. I learned during my odyssey that productivity could be redefined and that my definition was the only one that mattered. We mayor mortals are very bad at predicting the future. My worst fears didn't materialize. But expectation and worry and anxiety are frequent, hob, goblins of change, they cloud, our imagination and limit our choices, the objects of their desire live. 

Only in our minds, it helps to keep a keen eye on the present to avoid falling under their spell. It helps to allow for the possibility that there is an outcome that you have not even dreamed of. It helps just stay physically healthy and surround yourself with people who love and support you. 

What worried me about retirement was, what could have happened. I could have spiraled into a depression, or floundered in the discomfort of the unfamiliar or I could have flourished this time. I flourished another time. I may have found it. If I had been less healthy, less loved less supported. 

We don't know how we will feel tomorrow, what our circumstances will be and who will accompany us on our ways. Our lives unfold in a constantly changing world. I had no idea that the entire world's landscape would be forever. Transformed by an aggressive novel coronavirus three months into my own personal transition. 

Lockdowns quarantines virtual meetings and zoom holiday. Gatherings colored my individual metamorphosis and the lives of everyone living on the planet. We were all trying to hold on to our own personal roller coasters. Aren't we always while trying to literally survive, a seismic shift in the world? We knew the workplace was transformed. 

I wasn't the only one getting used to a new metric for productivity As more of us found ourselves confined to our living spaces. The old standards of hours worked and dollars paid no longer sufficed as a gauge for feeling useful because I chose change. Before coven appeared, I had already started to take satisfaction from what had previously felt like chores with more time. 

I enjoyed gardening cooking and writing and viewed them as legitimate productivity. I even came to perceive the mere pursuit of enjoyment as productive doing errands. And spending time with elderly relatives reading a book all proved surprisingly productive, Bare them productive gratifying myself esteem remained intact and was finally measured by me alone. 

When Cove had hit, everyone started posting their bread making knitting and home improvement promise. Well I was in a self-. Well, I was in a self-imposed period of exploration. Many were simply trying to maintain their sanity. It's not that covid didn't affect me. I was just already in the process of figuring out how to navigate change, of course, there's change, and there's change, there's retirement and then there's covet, there's chosen change, and inflicted change. 

It took a year for me to stop seeing my ultra egos as separate, and retirement, as an ending or a beginning. Now, I see it as an action that required a period of transition. 

The professional life, the professional the wife, the mother, this daughter sister friend one woman, living one little life. One precious little life going through change after change. I've experienced 10,000 hours of change over the years, so I should be an expert by now. I'm not two years after covenant struck at the beginning of his own retirement. 

My husband died. Suddenly I was nearing the end of the first draft of my memoir about change. This memoir about change as illustrated by my retirement, there are no words to describe the scope of that loss. It put all other transitions into perspective, I have only just begun that passage, that's the best thing you ever written, right?