Title, Flying Goat Pose.
With that rear leg lifted, index fingers growing out of your skull.
Straighten that standing leg until you come into flying goat pose, Mark said.
He timed this for the exact moment Terry walked into the room.
We all worked for GE.
In our cynical moments, we labeled it Generous Electric.
The company allowed a yoga class at lunchtime.
It had to fit within the allowed lunch hour, which was 45 minutes.
The fitness center was a 10-minute walk each way in the Boston plant.
Changing clothes takes five minutes each way.
We had 15 minutes for a yoga class.
We took exception to this corporate generosity.
You see, there was a history.
The fitness center in Boston where we practiced itself came into being in 1983.
This was a time when professional employees nationwide were impatient for modernization.
The Generous headquarters in Cincinnati installed a fitness center complete with a swimming
pool.
They made a big deal announcing it.
In a nod to one-third of the company that worked in Boston, they promised to install
a salad bar in our cafeteria.
Since Cincinnati employees paid use fees for the fitness center, we guessed the company
believed all was fair.
There ensued a ruckus.
When the dust settled, we got a fitness center.
But we would not get a pool, and the 45-minute lunch hour would not change.
Yoga had yet to become popular with the corporate crowd.
There was an unused conference room in the new center that would become our yoga room
in a few years.
Meanwhile, we took an hour and 15 minutes for lunch after that.
This was after several visitors from Boston to headquarters reported that the Cincinnati
folks were doing just that.
We knew we could get away with it.
For quite a while after that change in outlook, we pedaled, ran, and lifted our way through
our one-hour and 15-minute lunch hour.
Then sometime in the late 1990s, we began yoga classes.
We never forgot the salad bar, and we used an hour and 15 minutes to make a 45-minute
class.
As long as we did not raise the issue, the company left us alone.
We felt like we were practicing yoga as a community.
Some of our yoga folks worked right up to the official lunch hour and caused everybody
to wait.
Why would not we start without them?
The yoga room was a converted conference room.
We could barely fit everybody packed mat to mat.
So what?
The steel doors swung inward, and a latecomer may get a tap on the head.
Terry was a consistent offender.
We grumbled within our yoga family.
One of our family was not practicing community yoga.
Mark had begun teaching this class a few years previously.
He began to think.
Nothing like a good old shaming, Mark figured and came up with flying goat pose.
This is best done at the very beginning of class for the most shame effect.
Leave the doors open.
Listen for the consistent offender to approach.
Make horns grow from each temple using your hands with pointers extended.
Then with your knees bent deeply to protect your low back, lower your torso into a forward
fold.
Also rest on thighs.
Now extend one leg backwards towards a runner's lunge and at the same time lift up towards
a warrior three pose.
Look towards the door and smile with best of intentions.
